Opinion: For Best Buy, it’s the beginning of the end

Poor financial results may eventually lead to a takeover

by Philip Van Doorn

As Best Buy’s stock keeps falling, the company’s prospects for survival as an independent entity dim. That means long-suffering shareholders may see a private-equity takeout of the company and never get their money back.

Best Buy Inc. BBY, +0.00% today announced the results of its fiscal second quarter ended Aug. 2. It was ugly, and the electronics retailer’s shares fell as much as 6%, adding to this year’s decline.

Here’s a quick look at Best Buy’s depressing numbers:

Best Buy’s decay

Other media reports are focusing on the company’s 2.7% decline in comparable-store sales. Domestic same-store sales were down 2%, and international comparable-store sales were down 6.7%.

More positive was a 22% increase in online sales, brought about, in part, by inventory improvements to help augment ship-to-store business with ship-from-store capability. However, those sales totaled only $581 million, 7% of total revenue.

Looking at the overall numbers on the table above, gross profit declined 16%, while expenses dropped 11%, leading to a 42% decrease in operating income.

The company is still making money, and earnings per share of 42 cents in the second quarter comfortably covered the dividend of 17 cents.

On a non-GAAP basis, adjusting for a favorable settlement on LCD litigation, as well as restructuring and asset-impairment charges, EPS improved to 44 cents from 32 cents a year earlier. Best Buy also said that on an adjusted basis, its gross profit margin narrowed to 23.4% from 23.9% a year earlier.

Best Buy had $2.1 billion in cash and equivalents as of Aug. 2, increasing from $1.9 billion a year earlier, and it is not overly leveraged, with $1.6 billion in long-term debt and second-quarter interest expenses of $23 million.

So you might be wondering about Best Buy’s long-term viability.

The answer is that unless Best Buy engineers a miraculous turnaround, private-equity investors may be able to scoop up the company on the cheap. The stock had sunk 19% this year through Monday’s close.

When the company surprised investors during 2013 by surviving, the stock surged 244%. But the shares’ five-year total return is negative 2%, compared with a 116% total return for the S&P 500 SPX, +0.32%  Index.

Many investors made a lot of money with quick bets on Best Buy last year, but that’s yesterday’s news.

The company has a fundamental problem faced by many retailers. It is difficult to compete online with Amazon.com Inc. AMZN, +0.06% which has sacrificed profits to build killer market share. Changes in technology also work against Best Buy, as consumers shy away from buying physical media. And big-ticket items, such as TVs and computers, don’t necessarily lead to repeat business.

As revenue falls, margins shrink and the stock price dwindles, don’t be surprised if a familiar private-equity player builds a big stake in Best Buy and starts clamoring for a sale. For long-term investors who hoped for more gains after last year’s rebound, a takeout scenario would be particularly bitter and costly.