For years, aluminum giant Alcoa failed to benefit from the broader economy's recovery, performing so poorly that the Dow Jones Industrials (DJINDICES: ^DJI  ) expelled the company from its ranks in 2013. Since then, though, Alcoa shares have rocketed higher on signs of budding strength and hopes for better times ahead. Nevertheless, the company faces a number of challenges, and there are several reasons to believe Alcoa stock could give back some of its hard-fought gains from over the past year. Gains in natural gas prices could put pressure on margins. Low natural gas prices in recent years have helped Alcoa keep its productions costs low and minimized the impact of low aluminum prices on its profit margin. Yet natural gas has already rebounded sharply from its lowest level two years ago, and further natural gas price increases could jeopardize Alcoa's future growth. In particular, the potential export of U.S. natural gas in the form of liquefied natural gas could lead to less dramatic price disparities around the world, taking away some of Alcoa's competitive advantage against its international rivals. Alcoa itself has lobbied against LNG exports, arguing that the resulting rise in U.S. natural gas prices would hurt its business and the businesses of other high-energy manufacturing companies. Yet as demand for gas rises, Alcoa will almost certain have to deal with higher costs in the future. Reliance on aerospace and automotive industries leaves Alcoa vulnerable. Alcoa took a risk in putting itself in its current position, and so far, that effort has paid off. Major competitors like BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto have taken steps to reduce their exposure to aluminum, and their willingness to sell off assets at less than premium prices in part contributed to Alcoa's big share-price decline going into last year. Yet investors are counting on Alcoa's aluminum focus to boost its growth as the industry strengthens. Still, Alcoa can't count on reaping all the success in aluminum for itself. If its turnaround continues to build momentum, BHP, Rio Tinto, and other players could well reverse course and challenge for a portion of what will then be a growing market. Alcoa would still claim its share of gains, and its competitive position would be stronger because of its more consistent long-term strategy. But in the long run, Alcoa's growth rate could be much slower than investors hope, and when shareholders realize that, the stock could give up some of its gains.