Ford's stock has had a terrific run since the dark days of early 2009, when it was trading for less than $2 a share. But every run comes to an end, sooner or later. Or put another way, every company faces risks that could knock its business off course. To be clear, I'm not saying that it's time to sell your Ford shares right now. (I own Ford stock and I have no plans to sell. If and when that changes, I'll tell you.) But if you're a Ford investor, or someone whose business depends on the company, it's worth keeping a close eye on the things that are most likely to hurt the company's bottom line -- and its share price. Here are three big ones. The economic crisis clobbered new-vehicle sales. We've since had a nice recovery, and the growth is continuing. Edmunds estimates that U.S. light-vehicle sales will total about 16.4 million this year. But that's not far from the peak of 16.99 million that we saw in 2005. How much growth is left? It's not (yet) clear that the U.S. market is peaking. But recently we've seen some signs that it might be. After growing over 13% in 2012, and another 8% in 2013, the U.S. light-vehicle market is up just 5% this year through July. Meanwhile, automakers' incentives are rising, and analysts have expressed concern about the increasing average length of new-vehicle loans (72 months has become very common). If history is any guide, slowing growth in the U.S. vehicle market will lead automakers to boost incentives -- using discounts to get the biggest possible share of customers who are willing to buy. If and when that happens, Ford will have a tough choice: increase incentives or risk losing sales.The F-Series is America's best-selling vehicle, and it's Ford's most profitable product. That makes the all-new 2015 F-150 a very important new product for the Ford Motor Company. But Ford is making a big gamble: The new F-150 features aluminum body panels, a first for a full-size American pickup. The new F-150 will weigh much less than the current trucks; the weight savings is expected to bring significant gains in fuel economy.That raises two concerns for Ford investors: Will buyers accept the new aluminum F-150? And will Ford be able to build it as profitably as its current trucks? The first concern is probably not something to worry much about. Some buyers might wait a bit to see how the new trucks are received, but Ford has clearly done its homework around this product. I've talked to several senior Ford executives about the new F-150, including CEO Mark Fields and North America chief Joe Hinrichs, and I can tell you that they are all very confident that customers will like the new F-150. They think they've got a winning product -- and given Ford's longtime success in the pickup market, I think they deserve the benefit of the doubt. But will the new trucks be as profitable as the outgoing models? Pound for pound, aluminum is a lot more expensive than steel, and making aluminum-bodied vehicles requires Ford's two truck factories to adopt different processes and tooling. There's a good chance, in other words, that these new trucks will cost more to make. But -- at least on the lower trim lines that account for the majority of F-150 sales -- Ford's price increases have been very modest. Will Ford make less money per truck on the new F-150? It's also possible that Ford's profit margins in North America will get squeezed a bit, at least for a while, and that could hurt the stock price. To some extent, success in Europe and Asia is already baked into Ford's stock price. That's because Ford's management has shown that they can execute well and because all signs so far have suggested that both efforts are solidly on track. But both face external risks, starting with political and economic risks in both China and Europe. If either effort goes off course, Ford's stock price will suffer.