Is Dollar Tree stock headed for a fall? All the early momentum it gained from announcing last month it was buying rival deep discounter Family Dollar has been lost amid a competing bid for the chain by Dollar General and an earnings report that, while reporting higher revenues and another quarter of positive same store sales, still came up short on profits. While there's a lot to commend the deep discounter that could send its stock higher, it's still fraught with risk that could send shares lower still. Let's be clear, I'm not saying you ought to put your sell order in right away, but smart investors know it's worth keeping at least one eye on the things that are most likely to hurt the company's bottom line -- and its share price. There's a lot of sense to its acquisition of Family Dollar, and beyond losing out to Dollar General as a risk that could sink its stock, Dollar Tree faces headwinds even if it comes out on top. For one, it may have to get into a bidding war to eventually win the prize. The General topped Dollar Tree's $8.5 billion bid with a counteroffer of $8.9 billion. Although Family Dollar rejected the competing bid, saying it needed assurances it wouldn't run into antitrust problems, Dollar General waved off those concerns and said it's committed to staying in the race.That means Dollar Tree may need to go a lot higher to eventually sway investors. Dollar General has the wherewithal and the need to up the ante even more as analysts believe a combination of those two chains makes even more sense as it creates a more effective competitor to Wal-Mart (NYSE: WMT  ) , which has increasingly been doing even more discounting to woo shoppers to its stores to offset lagging sales.Dollar Tree was already giving a 23% premium to Family Dollar shareholders. If it has to bid higher, the deal may not make as much financial sense. Harder to justify will be paying up so much for a company that was faltering. The merger combines the best operating dollar store chain with the worst, and it has committed to keeping on Family Dollar's CEO, the individual who's presided over the company's decline. While that may have played a role in the company rejecting Dollar General's offer since it has made no such assurances, it erects a hurdle in front of Dollar Tree to seamlessly integrate the two organizations. It could end up being a case of one step forward by leapfrogging to the forefront of the dollar store industry in terms of size, but two steps back as it needs to meld the organizations together without a hiccup all the while turning around a sinking ship. Couple that with increased margin compression due to selling more consumable products and the gap between it and Dollar General may be narrowed considerably. And if it's ultimately successful in buying Family Dollar, that company's poor profit picture will weigh heavily on future results.