Alibaba's profit, revenue surge ahead of IPO

TelisDemos

Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. reported a surge in revenue and earnings for its latest quarter, driven in part by increased activity on mobile devices, though its profit margin narrowed.

The results were included in an updated regulatory filing as the company is gearing up to launch its U.S. IPO next month, which could set records by raising more than $20 billion, according to people familiar with the company's plans.

Alibaba's mobile user base--a key point of emphasis in the ever-evolving e-commerce industry--continued to grow, with mobile monthly active users rising to 188 million for the quarter ended June 30, an increase of 25 million from the prior quarter.

Mobile volume accounted for 32.8% of total gross merchandise volume in the period, up from 27.4% at the end of the prior period and 12% at the end of the year-earlier quarter, a key statistic the company will likely aim to tout to investors when it begins shopping the deal to them.

Mobile merchandise sales nearly quadrupled to CNY164 billion.

"They are highlighting their strong mobile results and dominating...market share as smart phones play a bigger role in e-commerce in China than the U.S.," said Brendan Ahern, managing director at KraneShares, which sponsors exchange-traded funds focused on China, including the $108 million KraneShares CSI China Internet ETF.

Total revenue jumped 46% to CNY15.77 billion ($2.54 billion) in the fiscal first quarter ended June 30 versus the same period a year ago.

Its gross merchandise volume, or total sales across its online and mobile platforms, jumped to CNY501 billion ($81 billion) in the quarter, up 16% from the previous quarter, and 45% from the same period a year earlier.

By contrast, Amazon.com Inc., the U.S. online retailer, generated about $100 billion in total sales last year, according to Forrester Research. Alibaba generates its sales only by matching buyers and sellers, unlike Amazon, which also owns warehouses of goods and sells directly to customers.

The company will be wary of any investor doubts about mobile growth after what happened when Facebook Inc. went public in a $16 billion IPO in May 2012. The company warned about potentially slowing growth due to a shift from web browsing to mobile devices, and the stock tumbled after the IPO. The stock recovered, however, as the company reported strong mobile results in subsequent quarters.

"I believe Alibaba's management saw the results of Facebook's IPO and the questions raised due to the perception they lacked a mobile strategy, " Mr. Ahern said.

Analysts will also be keeping a close eye on Alibaba's spending as it aims to boost its mobile penetration and fend off competitors such as Tencent.

Though earnings surged to CNY12.34 billion ($1.99 billion) from CNY4.38 billion a year earlier, the company's costs also rose sharply in the quarter, up 68% to CNY4.59 billion ($739 million) from a year earlier.

The result was an operating profit margin drop to 43.4% from 50.3% a year earlier.

Despite its looming IPO, Alibaba has made a string of acquisitions and other investments to bolster its mobile presence, including acquiring Chinese mobile web browser UCWeb. Alibaba even considered an investment in Snapchat Inc., the U.S. chat mobile app, but ultimately passed on it, a person familiar with the talks said.

The company said in its filing that "we expect to continue to make strategic investments and acquisitions" related to mobile, digital media, and other services, which "may affect our future financial results, including by decreasing our margins and net income."

One acquisition this year, of a Hong Kong-listed film-production company, raised questions about the pace of dealmaking when Alibaba disclosed that it discovered accounting irregularities at Alibaba Pictures after the deal.

A decline in a measure of profitability may add doubts about how Alibaba's efforts to grow will affect its bottom line, said Grace Su, a senior research analyst at ClearBridge Investments. She said she hopes to learn more about Alibaba's expectations for profit margins during the company's IPO road show.

But, she added, investors will be "encouraged that basically a third of their users are on mobile. That's phenomenal." She said investors may give Alibaba "the benefit of the doubt" that increased mobile activity will generate more advertising revenue, given the experience of U.S. firms making the same transition.

The road show process could begin after the U.S. Sept . 1 Labor Day holiday, the people familiar with the plans said. The company will first set a valuation range on the company and then begin a two-week process of holding meetings with investors in Asia, Europe and the U.S. The stock, listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol "BABA," would begin trading in mid-September under that timeline.

-Juro Osawa contributed to this article.

