Tiffany & Co. Beats Expectations And Raises Full-Year Outlook

Maggie McGrath

Tiffany & Co TIF +0.61%.’s  diamonds and sparkling silver aren’t the only things shining for the company Wednesday morning: the jeweler released its first quarter fiscal 2014 earnings report Wednesday morning, and both profit and revenue were significantly higher than analysts anticipated thanks to a boost in sales from Tiffany’s lower-cost collections. As a result of the earnings beat, shares of Tiffany are popping more than 7% in early Wednesday trading.

Tiffany reported $1 billion in first quarter revenue, beating the $953 million Street consensus and a 13% jump compared to the same time in 2013. On a constant currency basis, the jeweler said its worldwide net sales increased 15% and its same-store sales increased 11% for the quarter.

The retailer’s net income increased to $125.6 million, a 50% jump over the $83.5 million reported for the prior-year quarter and a figure that resulted in earnings of 97 cents per share, up from 65 cents per share in the prior-year period and jumping well above the analyst consensus of 77 cents per share. Excluding pre-tax expenses that diluted 2013 first quarter results by 5 cents per share, net earnings rose 41% compared to the same time last year.

“This is an excellent and encouraging start to the year,” Michael Kowalski, Tiffany chairman and CEO, said in a statement Wednesday morning. “We were pleased with the strong and broad-based sales growth across most regions and product categories and our ability to leverage those improved sales into very significant growth in operating and net earnings. Strength in fine and statement jewelry sales continued, while sales of our new or expanded jewelry collections accelerated, led by our Atlas collection.”

The Atlas collection is one of Tiffany’s lower-cost collections — some pieces retail for as little as $125 — and the success of the line drove sales in the U.S. and helped the company increase its gross margin to 58.2%, up from 56.2% in the prior-year quarter. (The jeweler’s profit margin is actually higher in its lower-cost collections than in its more expensive fine jewelry.)

“Despite snow storms that affected some of our stores in the northeast, we enjoyed very good Valentine’s Day results,” Mark Aaron, vice president of investor relations, noted in a conference call with investors Wednesday morning, proving that bad weather doesn’t automatically tank a quarter’s results. He also reiterated a theme from prior quarters, noting that consumers have an increasing interest in colored diamonds and particularly yellow diamonds.

Sales in Japan were a particularly bright spot for Tiffany, surging 20% to $174 million. The results were boosted by the fact that a consumption tax hit Japanese consumers on April 1, so Japanese demand in March was “exceptionally” strong. Once the consumption tax hit, Tiffany did experience a sales decline in April — but nonetheless, the company is reiterating its forecast of full-year sales growth in Japan.

Due to the quarter’s strong results, Tiffany executives said that they are raising their full-year earnings outlook by 10 cents per share to a range of $4.15 to $4.25 per share in net earnings, results that would mark 11% to 14% growth over the $3.73 per share in full-year 2013 earnings.

Following the release of the earnings results, shares of Tiffany initially surged 6%; shares are currently up 7.2%. Year-to-date, the retailer has declined 4.7%.